**PortSwigger Web Security Academy**

**Path Traversal DDOC:** Learning & understanding how to read Arbitrary files. So far ive learned that when a URL pulls up an img it will pull the image from /var/www/123.png filepath. Now an attacker can manipulate the URL wit /etc/passwd to request what they want i.e passwd. Now using the sequence `../` is valid within a filepath because it tells the filepath to step up one level. So putting 3 of those `../` sequences steps up from var/www/123.png to filesystem root and it will then read only etc/passwd.
**LAB Conclusion:** (I cant show the work but i will explain how ive completed the module) So when I got in the lab I was honestly lost at what to do. Then I kept reading the objective over and over and it clicked, I had to change the img path to solve the lab. So after 15 maybe 20 mins of looking at burpsuit and seeing nothing, ive decided to open the image of the product in a new tab and thats where I intercepted https://0ad2008a03381c8c806cd65300e30007.web-security-academy.net/image?filename=53.jpg and changed the filename to filename=../../../etc/passwd and solved the lab. **COMPLETE✅**

**Access Control DOC::** Learning & understanding access control. Access control is basically a constraint on the web app to keep out people that dont have access to controls they shouldnt like deleting a record of an employee, or changing file names in the system. Now there are 2 types of access control.
        **1. Vertical (The Ladder Climb)** This is when an employee tries to gain access to privilages that they don't normaly have like user                                              getting Admin power or worse SUPER ADMIN.
        **The LAB:** Alright, while I was in this lab, my first go to was the log in page and see if I can log in with username: admin Passwd:                       admin........but that wouldve bin waaaayyyy too easy right? So I started using burpsuit to capture traffic and I seen that                      burp was point at a URL with a vulnerability (now in a real world scenerio this wont happen so I would have to remember                         what to look for) so I turned on my intercepter and changed this (https://0acc00e0042968878009214600510051.web-security-                        academy.net/) into this (academy.net/robots.txt) and what do you know??? it showed a txt file containing administrator-                         panel soo I took that same URL took away robot.txt and tossed in administrator-panel to it (academy.net/administrator-                          panel) and got to delete carlos from the job, I would mark this lab **COMPLETE✅**
        **The LAB_2:** Now for this lab I was stuck on it forever!! or it felt like forever. Now I had to climb The Ladder one again but this                         time it was in a dfrnt location. I thought looking on the web home page was gonna work, I thought looking in the                                category filters was gonna work, I tried robots.txt again and nothing. I was bouncing from burp to the web page back                            toburp tryna find the vulnerability. I know I was looking in the right spot because burp was telling me so. I was stuck                         on this lab for a good 30, 40 mins because I did't wanna use the solution tab that the Academy offers, I wanted to figure                       this out on my own. But I was so lost that I decided to go into the solution for help. I then figured out that the                              vulnerability was in the java script. So I searched threw the java found the vulnerability placed it in the URL got rid                         of carlos and solved the lab. KEY TAKEAWAY (don't just check robots.txt it wont always be there co code analysis also)                          **COMPLETE✅**
        **2. Parameter-based access control methods**
        **2. Horizontal (The Tight Rope)**
